This is TMWA, an MMORPG server used by The Mana World that uses a protocol
based on one of many projects that foolishly chose the name "Athena".
Specifically, it was forked from eAthena, a Ragnarok Online clone, in 2004.

TMWA is maintained in conjunction with The Mana World, but is not tied to
it. However, please read the note about server-data below.


For user instructions, see:
http://wiki.themanaworld.org/index.php/How_to_Develop

Important Note: building from a github-generated tarball does not work!
You must either build from a git checkout or from a 'make dist' tarball.


The rest of this file contains information relevant only to
1. Distributors.
2. Contributors.


TMWA has been maintained by o11c (Ben Longbons) since early 2011 or so.
Before that, it never really had a proper maintainer, since everyone
thought that ManaServ was going to be the thing. But it won't ever be.

TMWA has a bugtracker: https://github.com/themanaworld/tmwa/issues
But it's probably worth getting on IRC first:
irc://chat.freenode.net/tmwa
https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#tmwa

Note that this channel is *only* for technical discussion of TMWA (and
attoconf), not general chat or TMW content development.

I'm active in the Pacific timezone, but I might not have internet access
all the time. I'm usually never AFK longer than 48 hours; when there is an
exception, I always tell the content devs who also idle there.

(TODO put this file in some sort of markup - github likes .md)


1. Distributors.
# random not-quite-YAML
Important notes:
 - Go read version.make
 - TMWA requires git to build by default, use 'make dist' to get a tarball.
platform dependencies:
  architecture:
    tested: x86 and (finally!) amd64; possibly x32
    required: little-endian (for now)
  operating system:
    known bad: Linux 2.6.26 and earlier
    maintained: Linux 3.2 and later
    likely to break: Cygwin, BSD
  filesystem:
    must support symlinks
build dependencies:
  python:
    required: 2.7.x only, installed in $PATH as 'python'
  C library:
    recommended: glibc 2.17 or higher
    supported: glibc 2.13
    known bad: glibc 2.8 or below
    unsupported: anything that's not glibc
  C++ compiler:
    required: g++ 4.7.2 or higher
    recommended: g++ 4.8.1 or higher
    likely to work: clang++ 3.3 or higher
  C++ library:
    recommended: libstdc++ to match g++; may need patch for clang++
    may work: libc++
  attoconf:
    special: see below
runtime dependencies:
  glibc:
    depends on what it was built against
  libstdc++:
    depends on what it was built against
instructions:
  configuration:
    ./configure --disable-compat-symlinks
    (Takes most of the options GNU Autoconf's configure does - I won't
        repeat the output of ./configure --help here.)
    (--prefix=/usr, not --prefix usr, in order to prevent an ambiguity.
        "In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.")
    (Out-of-tree builds work.)
    (Note that there is no option to disable dependency tracking, as it
        is also used to generate link information. There is also no option
        to ignore unknown options - I refuse to lie.)
  build:
    make -jN
  build test:
    make test
    (Not really useful yet. Requires source of Google Test.)
  install:
    make install DESTDIR=/whatever
    (See "what is installed" below)
  install test:
    not implemented

Note about attoconf:
  TMWA's ./configure script is implemented using a python package
  'attoconf', which I wrote over a weekend after reading GNU autoconf's
  documentation and realizing that it was 1. insane, and 2. still trying
  to solve the wrong sort of problem.

  Currently, attoconf's API is still in the "experimental" stage, so the
  real rule is "does ./configure work?".
  When it gets to 1.0, it will start guaranteeing compatibility.

  Attoconf is available at https://github.com/o11c/attoconf/ and is a
  well-behaving python package.

  Attoconf requires Python 2.7; a port to Python 2.6 is doable with a bit
  of work, but it is not known if this would benefit anybody.

  If you're Arch - you broke Python for us all, you clean up your own mess.
  Patches to call a nonexistent /usr/bin/python2 will NOT be accepted.

What is installed:
  Overview:
    Currently, 'make install' installs 5 binaries. Depending on how it is
    configured, it may also install 5 symlinks for the old names. As a
    distributor, though, you don't want that, and they will go away soon.

    In future there may be data and configuration files, and 'make install'
    will offer subtargets (make install-exec) as appropriate.

    The 4 main programs below are typically running on the same machine,
    though in theory they may be configured to run on different machines
    in a fast LAN. Also, the internal protocol between the programs is
    subject to change without notice, so they *must* be upgraded
    simultaneously.

    All of these programs currently read their config files relative to the
    current working directory; this is the only thing that makes sense
    since the files are dependent on the server-data.


  tmwa-monitor:
    Formerly known as eathena-monitor.

    An unmaintained tool whose job was to keep restarting the servers
    every time they crashed. It still builds in case anyone was using it,
    but it proved inflexible and has't really been kept up-to-date with our
    (TMW's) server-data, and besides, the server doesn't crash much now.

    At some point I plan to rewrite it and ship a new conf file, unless
    everyone agrees to use systemd, in which case I maybe can use that.

    In the mean time, there is a run-all script in the server-data repo
    that starts the appropriate server for that config. On the main server,
    we instead start the servers (and bots) individually in a tmux.

  tmwa-admin:
    Formerly known as ladmin ("local").

    This is an essential tool to maintain the server's flatfile "databases".
    It doesn't actually touch the files directly, just connects to
    tmwa-login.

    Even when everything is rewritten to use SQL, it will be kept, if just
    to keep a consistent interface. In fact, if we use SQLite we *can't*
    edit the databases independently. This wouldn't be a problem with
    Postgres, but people seem to think it's hard to install (that's not my
    experience on Debian though. Did they ever try themselves, or are they
    just repeating what they've heard?)

  tmwa-login:
    Formerly known as login-server.

    User-facing server to deal with account checks.

    Also accepts internal connections from tmwa-admin and tmwa-char,
    subject to a plaintext password (and for tmwa-admin, also an IP check).

  tmwa-char:
    Formerly known as char-server.

    User-facing server to deal with character persistence.

    Connects to tmwa-login; also takes internal connections from tmwa-map.

    Note that it is fully supported for more than one tmwa-char to connect
    to the same tmwa-login; the client will be presented with a list of
    "worlds" before leaving the login-server.

  tmwa-map:
    Formerly known as map-server.

    Connects to tmwa-char.

    It is technically possible for more than one tmwa-map to connect to
    a single tmwa-char, but this is poorly supported by our current config
    and moderation tools.

  about server data:
    Just having the binaries is not enough: you also need a complete set of
    content: config files, game scripts, savefiles, and client updates.

    A web server to serve the updates is also strongly recommended, as even
    developers get annoyed when wushin makes us work straight from his
    client-data repo.

    Currently, there is only *one* set of server data that is known to be
    compatible with TMWA: https://github.com/themanaworld/tmwa-server-data

    The only recommended way of using this is by following the instructions
    in the "How to Develop" article. These instructions are only designed
    for people contributing to TMW itself, not to people trying to start
    a fork - we know all forks are doomed to be unsuccessful anyway, so
    please don't split the development effort, and you can't split the
    player community.

    In particular, the instructions do NOT provide information on how to
    secure a server by changing all the default passwords.

    There are 3 other known sets of complete server data: regional ones
    for Germany and Brasil, and Evol. Evol requires their own fork of
    the tmwa server (for some reason they don't like me to call it evola),
    and nobody seems to know of the foreign servers are keeping active.

    Note also that The Mana World has not investigated the copyright status
    of other sets of server data.


2. Contributors.
The most important thing if you want to help improve TMWA is *talk* to me.
No, wait, that's the second most important thing.

The real most important thing if you want to help improve TMWA is that it's
*work*. You can't just stop by and chat for a few hours and help at all.
If you're going to work on TMWA, you have to be work months in the future.

TMWA was terrible when I got it, and I've only fixed enough to make it
sane, not pretty. Even a minimal change is likely to touch the whole tree,
so merge conflicts are a constant problem.

That said, there *are* several tasks that I could use help with. Several
essential tasks have been left undone just because they don't conflict with
the main body of my work.

But I do not want someone who will just work for a few hours, go to bed,
then never return. I have wasted far too many hours answering their
questions. If you're going to help, you have to actually *help*.

The following skills are good to know required for various tasks:
  - ability to read
  - ability to write
  - ability to notice error messages
  - ability to solve your own problems
  - willingness to accept review of your changes. It's not personal if I
    say your work is wrong, I'm just seeing more than you do, and tiny
    details are often incredibly important.
  - familiarity with gdb
  - Python (A low entry barrier, but Python alone is not enough for the
    tasks. Particularly, reread the bit about review.)
  - C++11 (Not a low entry barrier. I'm not really expecting help with this,
    and since this is conflict heavy, please do the other tasks first).
